foreign
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
good morning good morning hey how is the
integration going for you at the Last
Retreat
man it's it's a lot
it's really good there's uh that was a
big one yeah yeah I guess context for
listeners we just did a week-long
Retreat and uh I was a participant in it
on this one and got to go through the
whole process which was beautiful
um
and yeah it's awesome to watch you
awesome
yeah thank you
I had this uh particular opening where I
just felt into some like really deep
guilt from early childhood and it moved
and since then I've been having this
kind of disorienting experience of there
being sort of a
like a memory in my body of where there
used to be a small amount of guilt in
many different kinds of interactions
that was never about the interaction but
like my mind would have previously made
it about the interaction like yeah oh
yeah I'm like talking to somebody about
something I'm doing and I'm noticing the
absence of being self-conscious like I'm
trying to sell them something
Adam's kind of disoriented by it like oh
yeah it's just kind of nice to just be
here and talk about it and there's not a
little bit of low level
residual emotion from a long long time
ago so yeah sort of stepping out into my
life and seeing where all of the
you know where that fractal amount of
difference shows up in all of my
interactions
yeah that's awesome that makes me happy
and also just feeling generally more
sensitive
I'm noticing more subtle emotions in
myself and noticing more subtle emotions
if someone else is in the room and
they're feeling an emotion and I'm like
oh what is this I'm like reminding
myself yeah that doesn't have to be mine
that's just something that's over there
yeah that's cool
yeah you look great you look wonderful
yeah thanks yeah
cool well now that I've sidetracked us
right from right from the beginning I
sidetracked us what are we supposed to
do today Brett yeah beautiful Side Track
thanks so for today we have the final
episode in the curriculum for the
decision series for the decisions course
uh and we're going to talk about
principles awesome
yeah good
yeah that's one of my one of my favorite
topics and yet it's one of those topics
that I notice when I speak it and and I
and I'm I like if I'm with a whole bunch
of Executives and we talk about
principles
it
it's so close to other things that it
gets disguarded as you know
a values exercise or something like that
like one of these exercises where we all
get together and agree on something and
then it makes no difference
and um and yet it's such a driving force
in my life and the way that I live it's
it's a it's something I love talking
about and and when I see it clicking
folks it's amazing how it changes their
life
and yet
for so many I see that it it
just gets disregarded as something that
they've heard before some sort of static
yeah so okay I'll be curious to see how
we do on this one yeah so maybe maybe
let's start with differentiating what is
it that you mean when you say principles
that might help people not see it as
what what you just described as what
they might have previously seen as you
know values or something else yeah yeah
I don't know when the whole values thing
started I think it was Kobe he was a a
guy he did the Franklin planner and he
had this whole thing about values I
remember doing it when I was first doing
investment banking
and then all these companies every
company had to do values and so they
only became these exercises and about
you know and I suppose I think it
originally was designed to be oh like
who are we in this world and what do we
stand for
and
I think there's been two problems with
those the first one is that the values
became super generic
um and the second is they're really hard
to act upon them like we value honesty
oh it's like right isn't that what we're
all supposed to do generally anyways and
so it wasn't
it wasn't differentiated and then I
think the other problem with it
um
is the
is that it it was just kind of top down
or it was you know some group somewhere
in the companies came up with this idea
of values and
but when Kobe originated the concept I
think it was closer to the idea
principles that I have now in and I and
I was reminded by that because we were
doing this retreat in San Diego and we
were in this house that was owned by
these Mormons and I don't know if cover
is Mormon but it was adopted there and
and so they had like their mission
statement this family had a mission
statement of values in the house that we
were renting on Airbnb it was actually
quite lovely I was
like oh what a sweet sweet thing
um the difference is however that
principles for me is how do you make a
decision by it
meaning that
okay uh my I value honesty for instance
right right so unless I am choosing to
be dishonest which is not a choice that
I would make almost ever then there's no
choice that I'm that I'm gonna make
based on that value
whereas a principle it's all designed on
Choice it's all designed on
how do you make choices automatically
because you live by a set of principles
and so they should very much be
um
designed to create action and to clarify
decision making so you don't have to
stop and think about big decisions
yeah can you give an example of how how
a principal might help you make a
decision and yeah absolutely in the way
that you're describing the most
articulate one that I've ever heard as
far as the principle goes is something
that um a gentleman from MIT taught me
he says when we're solving a problem
and it's a complex problem the first
thing I was taught to do is go to the
part I know the least about
and and do a small experiment there that
will teach me the most about the thing I
know at least amount so
and he gave this great description he
said if I'm building a car and I know
how to do all the bars of a car except
for the
drivetrain then I would what most of the
time will happen is I'd build the whole
car and then I build the drivetrain
because I would build a thing that I
know
and then I built the drivetrain and then
I'd realize my drivetrain wasn't what I
thought it'd be and I'd have to rebuild
the whole car
so instead what I'll do is I'll do this
simplest experiment
to learn the most about the drivetrain
and then I will build the drivetrain
first and then I'll build the car around
it
and that's a principle that immediately
when you're solving a problem you know
what to do first look for the thing you
know the least about figure out how to
find the most in the simplest way
that immediately tells you what to do so
that's a great principle for engineering
okay what's another what's another
example of a principle and kind of
another Arena yeah so for me one of my
yeah one of my principles is connection
connection
and so for me that principle tells me
immediately
um what to do in in most situations
where there's any kind of problem that's
happening
so
so for instance let's say I am tired
and I notice that my mind is being
negative and
and the world isn't going the way that I
want it to go what do I do first thing I
do is connect
and and for me that's connecting with
myself and the people around me
if I'm having a
um problem in the business
and we don't know how to solve it the
first thing I do is connect I connect
with myself about what I want I connect
with everybody else to talk about the
problem
so that's another example is like where
for me connection is a principle and I
ha and I use the words connection
connection because it starts with
connection you maintain connection and
when in doubt you connect
is something that allows me to know what
to do in any time that there's a problem
that's an example so so it sounds like
maybe some of the distinction that
you're making here between the way that
you see principles and the way that
values are commonly held is that
principles are something that's sort of
an action like from your principle can
flow action in a situation whereas from
a value a value might be more about how
you want things to be
generally but it doesn't necessarily
flow into into your decision tree or
right like factor into it other than
just to tell you what you should be
doing According to some standard right
right yeah it's kind of more of a
morality it's kind of like uh the value
situation is seems to be more of a
morality and it's about what not to do
and principles are more about what to do
and that's another way to look at it
another great example of a principle
is um there's you know there's a guy
named Ray dalio and he
um he's made his principles pretty
famous and
and one of his principles is that
transparent markets are efficient
markets which means that efficient
markets mean the things that are
actually of value rise to their value
and and things that aren't don't so
that's an efficient market there's no
Arbitrage opportunity where
things are valued because of
um inefficiencies in the market rather
than of their actual worth and
so he sees his business as a Marketplace
in itself
and so he was like a transparent Market
is an efficient market so I will have my
business be transparent and that led him
all the way to videotaping all the
meetings
and even if apparently even if you're in
a water cooler and you're having a
conversation about somebody you're
supposed to record it and then they're
supposed to be able to see it and so
it's like a complete the idea is a
completely transparent situation and as
The Story Goes you know everybody was
opposed to it because they were like man
the lawyers get a hold of this will be
able to be sued and you can't have this
kind of
and it turns out apparently they get
sued a lot less because they have it all
on tape and everybody knows it so nobody
does any kind of crap so so it's just
like that transparency does make a like
a very efficient market a very honest
Mark I would say transparency more than
an efficient market it it doesn't allow
um rotten culture the more transparent
the culture the less rot that can happen
the less dry rot in the corners can
happen yeah so so in this case the
principle could be seen as a thesis and
your thesis could be correct or
incorrect or lead to different results
in the market like without without
saying how correct or incorrect it could
just leads you to different places you
have different principles it'll take you
different places if you operate by a set
of principles you'll be able to make
decisions really fast that are
relatively consistent so you're more
likely to get to wherever your
principles would lead you
correct then if you didn't have them
exactly and and that's I think you just
said something in passing there that is
so important which is that principles
lead you
when you've decided on a prince on some
principles you follow them
you know when we did the big 18 month
course together and I've stuck the
principles on the wall
it was like that was the authority The
Authority was the principals that we
live by it and it didn't matter about me
or somebody else if there was a way to
look at and say hey there's a way that
we can live more closely to those
principles and that's what we were there
to do
and so yes we we follow them and that's
another great thing to see is that
when you have a great set of principles
The Authority isn't in what you want the
authority isn't in what you're scared of
it's not in the fear the authority is in
the principles and that's what you
follow
and I guess something something that
comes up for me there is whether it's
principles as thesis idea
if you consistently make decisions based
on something that you're not aware of it
is effectively a principle so you might
be making decisions as a business that
profit is more important than our people
and you may never have explicitly said
that but if those are the decisions you
tend to make because there's the fear of
not making enough profit yeah then
you're going to go wherever those
principles would lead you
but you're not aware of it so you can't
iterate on the principle that is right
yeah so that's true and in a way
most of us are operating on a set of
principles anyways it might be to avoid
fear that might be the principle or the
principle might be to
um make as much money as possible in the
shortest period of time
um it might be just win at any cost and
it might be to put somebody's discomfort
ahead of profit you know I see that
happen in a lot of non-profits or even
the viability of the company
and so whatever that is that principle
is is how you're making decisions and
one of the things about
a principles exercise and the way that
you live is that it brings those things
to light and it allows you to
iterate and modify them yeah yeah okay
so sort of this idea that we are all
operating under principles that we can
become more and more aware of and then
be more you know conscious of
which ones we're choosing to adhere to
that kind of brings up the question of
how did this particular form of relating
to principles arise for you
yeah how did this distinction come up in
your life such that you could articulate
it yeah that's a great question yeah so
the first one that the first principle
that dawned on me before it was even
conscious was the principle of embracing
intensity and
I started noticing
um
that
when when I did Lean Into the difficult
thing I think it started with therapy
with Tara
when we were first married and we were
we were highly highly dysfunctional in
our relationship
um I learned that if we would discuss
the difficult thing
if we would address it no matter how
scary it was that would make our
marriage stronger
and so that and so I started doing that
somewhat naturally and then I realized
okay well
I wonder if this works in other parts of
my life as well
and in business I saw that you know the
CEOs who like leaned into the
the thing that people didn't want to
talk about didn't want to lean into
wanted to get the bad news one of the
bad data they just were more successful
and
so leaning in there and then I had that
experience that I've talked about a
couple times of
you know driving past a house where I
felt really horrible because we've been
you know evicted or whatnot and
um
and I just leaned in there to the
emotional experience and and that
created a tremendous amount of freedom
and I kept on embracing that intensity
and
and I just realized oh this is just
something that works across the board
and it's something that I do generally
and at some point later on I I saw that
like maybe I was creating intensity to
embrace instead of embracing and it
didn't work and so then there was that
distinction that was created so for me
that was the first one and then I was
like oh this is this thing in my life
that once I recognize it I do it all the
time
even when I don't want to even when it's
not the convenient thing even because I
see that it works just so consistently
and so well
I just
naturally do it
much like working I know if I work out I
feel better so I work out even though it
might be uncomfortable and
and that's that was the first principle
and that's where it all stemmed from
then I started looking for the other
principles and and what what works
really well
and living by them and experimenting
with them and and then seeing what
worked what didn't work when it worked
when it didn't work
I'm wondering if you could there was a
moment in there that you mentioned the
the driving by the house example I'm
wondering if you have like uh if you
could just kind of give us a different
version of that
oh yeah okay there's a thousand there's
a there's a thousand of them uh
yeah during the retreat that we were we
were doing there was uh you know
oftentimes when we're doing a retreat
what happens is it somebody
uncovers something that's deep in them
like you were saying you uncovered the
um that little bit of guilt and if
somebody uncovers something that is
particular to their father oftentimes
they will act that thing out with me and
so during The Last Retreat I had
somebody who was
acting it out with me and normally
that's not a bother for me however this
particular one was a bother because it
hooked exactly with the thing that hooks
in me and so when I see that person and
they would try to trigger me I'd
actually get triggered and instead of
like just see it as you know the shame
football that they were throwing around
or the them acting out looking for their
their process of healing and
and so I was taking it uh personally and
and so for me the whole thing is to feel
this absolutely deeply feel that taking
it personally is to feel
the oh I've done something wrong here
what am I you know allow that entire
emotional experience through and then to
love it and welcome it and and then
I don't I'm no longer triggered by them
and I'm able to speak to it another one
was I had a somebody about a year and a
half ago write me a letter
and there even if it was all projection
it doesn't really matter they were they
had this thing where they just really
wanted to tell me what was written when
I read it I just one part of it just
felt like a kick in the gut and so I
reread that letter you know every day
for
I don't know it was probably about a
week until there was no more kick in the
gut until I could
totally be with that and there was no
resistance to what they were saying that
would be another example
how do you state the principles that you
were just describing in these examples
was was that connection those are all
Embrace intensity for me that was very
intensity intensity so there there was
this intense moment of a trigger or this
tense moment of a gut punch and then how
do I lean into that love that welcome
that
for me those are all Embrace intensity
yeah
yeah okay so before we move on I'd like
to kind of just touch a little bit more
on what makes these what makes
principles important to you
and in particular within this work
yeah the the
so if I look at my life and I think how
did I get here it was just the sum of
decisions that I made if I look at
everything that's going right and going
wrong
at least the part that I have any kind
of control over it's the decisions that
I've made there's some things that
obviously I have no control over
um so
making decisions is an incredibly
important part of
of of the result of my life and and I S
and the funny thing is I said it about
companies way before I said it about
myself or somebody's life I would say
you know the only thing that you have in
a company is people's relationships and
people's decisions like that's really
all that you have and those are kind of
the atomic structure of a company and
is but decisions that we make it's also
the atomic structure of our life what
what we choose to do with our time and
our energy and how we choose to be with
people Etc that really is the result
and so really looking at that process
and figuring out how to refine it and
make it most efficient is it for me is
Paramount for living the life that you
want to live or at least maybe it's not
Paramount because there's a lot of ways
to live a great life without looking at
it however I would say it is such a
great leverage Point such a great tool
to really look at and refine the way you
make decisions so how have your how have
your principles changed and evolved over
time
or have you just been slowly alone down
to the some core principles that seem to
be true for you yeah they've changed a
lot as you said at the beginning they
were just unconscious whatsoever I think
my principles if I think about myself in
the 20s I'd say that my principles
especially before therapy
I'd say my principles were
uh
be scared of Love try to get love
um
uh don't get it but try to get it be
scared of it
um uh find uh any kind of way
outside of the pain from my self-abuse
oh those were if I look at the
principles I was living by those are the
principles I was living by and and I
think there was also
taking care of others even if it wasn't
I know that's true taking care of others
even if it wasn't good for me those are
the principles out of a sense of
obligation that obligation made me good
and moral and so those were what I was
living by but I wasn't conscious of it
at all and then when I started thinking
about it consciously
um a couple of things happen the first
thing that happened was you know the
Embrace intensity
one happened and then the next obvious
one was the connection one uh and then I
noticed that I had some that were
overlapping and and some that weren't as
useful
um and some that were more moral and
less action-based
so all those things moved for me and and
the ones that I'm with now I've been
consistent for about five years but even
one of them changed a little bit I had
one it used to and I think the first
iteration of it
was uh uh what are you curious about
right now and then there was an
iteration of it is what's the
what's the question was the principal
and now it's just wonder exclamation
point it's just like Wonder
and it feels like if and and so what are
you curious about was a was a pointer to
look for the unknown to see the thing
that you wouldn't otherwise see to keep
a learner's mindset it was all an
indication of that
and I find that Wonder
is a stronger force it it doesn't
require me looking for an answer it's
the openness
and it's the ah without the needing of
an answer which seems to
Drive much better decision making
problem solving than trying to get to
the answer that that try and disconnects
me and so that one is the only one
that's changed in the last five years
but I'm constantly thinking about them
which I think is the most important part
is the experimentation and the thinking
about it and reviewing it is more
important
than the actual principles is what I've
noticed okay so so in these examples
you've described principles that have
worked for you as an executive coach
living in Sonoma County and I'm curious
like how would this work if you switch
contacts entirely and let's say you're a
soldier in Ukraine
right neither of us have context on that
but what would you how would you imagine
that
that your principles would play out
there yeah that's a great that's a great
great holy crap great question
um
so I'm hoping that they would be similar
but my like if I if I let my imagination
go for a minute and and I would think oh
you know connecting with the unit that
I'm in and having that strong sense of
connection would be incredibly important
connecting with myself on a regular
basis so that I was
not acting out of fear but acting in the
way that I wanted to act would be really
important embracing intensity would be
really important rather than you know
running away from the emotional
experience or
running away from the job that needed to
be done or doing the job that needed to
be done half-assed because I would think
that that would be really important
um I would think that
Wonder Maybe now that I think about
might not be as important in that
situation uh probably not I don't know I
think it would be I mean if you're if
you're following an order or following a
tactical plan you need to be in Wonder
to notice if something has changed if
you're not in wonder
yeah you know especially if you're doing
things that are deadly yeah consequences
could be
severe yeah I could see how you would
know that jumping off of incredibly tall
objects yeah you must stay in Wonder
yeah and wonder yeah so I would hope
that they would be the same but however
I would I also have like there are sets
of principles for certain contacts that
I use like there's sets of principles I
think about for marketing for instance
when we do marketing I have the all
these principles it's about connection
it's about embracing it saying the thing
that people normally wouldn't say it's
it's being in wonder about what where
people are it's constantly iterating
there's another principle I have
however there's marketing principles I
have too which is like everything you do
in marketing isn't meant to sell
anything it's just to help people see
the appeal of the next step of the
process and so for me that's and another
principle I have in marketing is that a
marketing needs to be teaching
so meaning that the marketing isn't to
sell something it's to create an
epiphany and if people want epiphanies
they'll keep on following following the
marketing so to speak and so
so if the marketing isn't part of the
teaching then it's not the marketing I
want to do as an example those don't
apply to everything and so that I'm sure
that there would be some principles to
war that I would acquire and be thinking
about so that I can make split-second
decisions that I have no idea
what it would be and I would also think
that these principles might be modified
like connection connection so if I have
somebody I'm competing with in on a
business context I'll still connect with
them I find that that works really well
in fact it's one of silicon Valley's
like I think one of their big strengths
in is that a lot of people who would be
competitors actually work together in
this field and
and that whole like
100 competition all the time thing
um is very different than back in the
IBM days for instance uh however I might
not want to connect with the like
depending on the position if I am like a
private foot soldier I'm not really
thinking about connecting with the
Russian private foot soldier on the
other side if I'm the general I might be
so I want to connect with where their
position is and information about them
so it's like you know keep your friends
close and your competitors closer so I
think that they would they would there
would be a modification I would
understand the principles differently
and and probably
more deeply and then that would affect
and so I constantly am trying to apply
these principles in different contexts
to see if they still work and see what I
can break about them and see
what needs to change and so I I would
assume that that I would under my
understanding of these principles would
change
if I was in a war as well yeah so
ultimately you're saying here that your
principle of everything is an iteration
applies to your principles as well
that's correct yeah I'm constantly the
the power like I said the power of
having principles is less about
the principles you have and more about
the process and I think that this is the
thing that gets people all the time is
that they
whether they're CEOs or they're creating
their own personal principles it's like
I've got them and that's it and then
what happens is like
uh you know three years later they've
completely forgotten their principles
and they're not living them and and so I
think I think one of the Steve Jobs I
think was Steve Jobs one of his
principles is wrestle with your
principles
that was one of the that's the job is to
continually wrestle with them and so
that's the same yeah that's so for me
it's the same thing it's everything is
an iteration that each of these things
I'm it's a process of learning it is not
a process of
of knowing yeah yeah okay so let's let's
talk a little bit about you know while
you are iterating on your principles how
do you keep them well defined how do you
define them such that they are
actionable principles and they don't
start drifting into the space of
you know shoulds immorality or yeah
values and lose their teeth yeah that's
great so I mean so I I I I really think
it's important to keep to about five
principles not having too many is you
don't remember them and you can't
wrestle with them as well so my my
principles I think we've gone over some
connection connection
everything is an iteration everything in
iteration for me is
um
about never thinking that a and
everything then there's an answer and B
never having the shame of getting it
wrong it's just about you're constantly
learning and you're continuing to
iterate Wonder exclamation point Embrace
intensity
and loving accountability and loving
accountability is how do I hold
accountability without shame is another
way to say that so when I'm defining
them
I Define each as what they are and what
they're not and that's a really
important thing so any any principle
whether it's in a company or whether
it's your personal principle can be
taken to such an extreme that
it does almost the opposite thing so a
great example of this is um inclusion it
would be let's say one of your
principles is inclusion
inclusion
taken all the way to some end is very
destructive and it isn't what's meant by
inclusion anymore so it like are we
including murders are we including
people who are toxic for the environment
are we including like what what are we
inclusive of exactly
and so inclusive and say if I was to
have a principal like inclusive it would
be you know be open to it would be
defined as something like being open to
um
being open to different points of view
from different backgrounds it would be
um uh seek to understand before you seek
to prove wrong things like that it would
be very much about that kind of
inclusion and it would not be
things like
everybody has a voice even if they're
not contributing
like if you're not being a part of the
solution having a voice is actually
quite detrimental or it would not be
um that we are including things that are
outside of our principles as an example
so really important to to
talk about what they are and what they
are not and to have like clear examples
of them is very important
and and that's what you run your tests
on so if let's say
if my principle is inclusion
or that wouldn't be my let's say one of
mine actually
um
everything is in iteration
um if that's my principle
then I'm constantly running experiments
okay so is it an iteration for instance
that oh just put the the thing on the
website don't care if the grammar is
good that's just an iteration that
doesn't feel right to me that's like no
we can we can make it as best as
possible
so I don't I don't want to say we're not
going to do quality because it's an
iteration what I do want to say is we're
going to do our best work but we're
going to see that the best work is going
to have problems and that to get it done
and test it is more important than to
try to get it perfect
and so I need to understand both sides
of the principle where the limits of the
principle are and so to do that I always
Define it by what is and what isn't the
other thing that's really important is
it you're you're trying to convince
you're trying to
um convince Us in the right word but
you're trying to affect behavior and so
you need to use some marketing
techniques as whenever marketers are
really good at affecting Behavior right
so
for me making them memorable everything
is an iteration loving accountability
these are things that are very Wonder
these are things that are very memorable
to me and so I'm more apt to use them
and to make them memorable and that
needs to be part of
um
but the other thing that is really
important is that I need to have a felt
sense of them to really be able to
Define
what the principle is somatically what
does it feel like to be in
everything is in iteration what does it
feel like to be embracing intensity so
there's a somatic response for me to of
really feeling into what it is to live
in that principle
what's the state that it brings me to
and what's the state it doesn't bring me
to so I don't have just an intellectual
one I have a felt sense of it because
the felt sense is what helps me make
decisions quicker
than just an intellectual one
yeah I'm curious how that would apply to
a a business principle like Ray adalia's
regarding the efficiency of the market
like how does how does that yeah that
would be yeah so for transparency
transparency if that if that's my
principle there's a very clear feeling
that I have when I'm hiding something
there's a very clear feeling that I'm
like and I'm sneaky there's a very
sneaky feeling and and so for me
transparency very much is like oh this
and transparency also if I'm living it
at its very edge then there's a little
bit of fear like to allow you know to
open the kimono fully so to speak to to
video that thing there's going to be a
little bit of fear to it so I know like
oh that is that's the edge of my
transparency
whereas being transparent in a way that
hurts somebody wouldn't feel good in my
system and it wouldn't be an edge of
like oh my gosh it wouldn't be like
walking into a giant room and being on a
stage it would be like hurting somebody
and that would be a very different
somatic experience yeah and then
extending this to being if there was a
principal
in a company of transparency anybody in
a meeting
could sense if
if there's not transparency in that
meeting and there's there's a way that
you can feel that you feel the tension
in your body you feel something off and
if the principle is to speak to that
then that'll produce a lot more
yeah and more transparency and so they
have great transparency but I hear
something that I can almost guarantee
they don't have they have algorithms for
their
I mean this is a hedge fund company Ray
dalio's company is a hedge fund company
I'm sure they're not like giving like
the janitor the algorithm for their you
know for their for their Alpha hedge
fund or whatever it is so
so even there there's like there's a
what is it and what is it not right it's
you have to Define it both ways and and
there's a clear feeling it would not
feel the same way as videoing a all the
meetings and watching videos where your
name was mentioned would feel one way
and like handing Trade Secrets off to
the janitor would feel a very different
way in the body
yeah
yeah okay what else what else comes up
for you around around definition of
principles
um the the other thing is that the
definition is less important than the
experimentation the the again the most
important thing is
okay so here's a principle I want to
live by every day you do an experiment
every day maybe two or three times a day
you do an experiment how did that work
what what worked for me
does it work overall because there's no
principle that you're going to have
that's going to feel great all the time
I'm sure that for instance
one time that videotaped meeting lost
them some money you know or lost them a
really good person I'm sure that it
nothing works 100 of the time when it
comes to humanity and so
doing lots of experimentation and really
understanding it and keeping it
alive and constantly doing the
experiments constantly it's something
that you're revisit on a regular basis
and wrestle with it as it were that's
more important than anything else
because it's it's what you know of it if
I say transparency to you and I say
transparency to me
they could mean and feel very different
ways and so what's important is that
experimentation and that is particularly
important inside of companies
particularly important inside of
companies that it's not something it's
not something that five people do it's
something that everybody experiments
with and learns from
yeah so that but that brings up the
question how
how if you are the leader in an
organization
do you
you know build an organization that
operates on principles
when you're only one person
and you're not wanting to to do this in
a top-down way but that's the only
leverage point you have yeah so this is
so seemingly I have walked a ton of
uh CEOs through this intellectually and
and then I've actually gone into
companies and done it with CEOs before
and there's a lot of subtle steps that
if they're missed
um just then they just it won't work
and so
so the way I'll tell you how I do it
I'll tell you where the missteps
typically are so the way that I would do
it is I would say okay
um we would go to the executive team and
say okay here are the here's the
assignment come up with five principles
that you think that we should run the
company together and then all of them
would present it to the CEO and the CEO
would present theirs and so they would
all do that independently so that you
had independent thought
pretty soon you would find out that
everybody really probably agreed on the
same five principles that the different
wording different things and maybe two
become one but it's pretty much you're
gonna find there's not gonna be a lot of
disagreement typically I've never had it
and then once you have that
then the executive team experiments with
them they do one one experiment every
day for one principle for five days and
so maybe it takes about a month where
they experiment with all the principles
and they online share
like they have a channel where it's like
I did this principle this is what
happened I did this principle this is
what happened they're all sharing and
learning from each other's experiences
so that you don't just get one person's
experience from it
when that's done then the CEO because
they are the CEO is the final decision
maker says these are the experiments
this is what they mean and what they
don't mean
and then you release them to the company
and then you say okay we're going to
experiment with them and the whole
company experiments with these
principles and you do it on and I've
done this in like a 1200 person company
where they're all like there's channels
slack or whatever Channel and where
they're talking about the experiments
they've done and they're learning from
one another and then they're saying here
the problems are this this this this
principle worked this way but I didn't
know about it this way and then there's
all this adjustment and learning and so
they're all learning from each other
what the principle living by this
principle actually means and where where
they can
put it at use
and then
and then again the CEO gets to decide
what changes if any changes and and how
to define them based on all those
experiments the other thing that I have
done with one company
which is a very flat organization is
before the executives came together the
whole company had a week to to you know
watch this video I made about how to do
how to make them and and then
and then they got to suggest some that
the executives could pay attention to or
not so they they were also part of the
brainstorming process
and then every quarter or so they'll
take one of the principles and say
Here's the principal that we're living
by and they'll all experiment with it
and do we want to change it is this
still or here's a new one that we want
to try out does this work do we add it
do we subtract something and so it's an
it is a way to wrestle with the with
them and that's
then that's how it works and so what
what stops working for people when it
doesn't work what are the pitfalls how
does this not work
no experimentation people aren't being
held accountable for the experimentation
uh top down here the principle somebody
goes out into a room and says these are
the principles
um
or some small group goes out into room
says here are the principles none of
that works
um the other thing that I do at the end
of the once all of this is done then
everybody's responsible everybody in the
company is responsible for finding and
committing to one way of reminding
everybody to live to the principles and
maybe that's making a sign that you put
in the bathrooms
or maybe that's
[Music]
um
you know having
a discussion group once every quarter or
maybe that's
you know changing the way that
um you do reviews uh so that the
principles are a part of the review
process or maybe that's changing the
sales pipeline so that let's say
connection is a bigger part of the sales
but
what happens is after the the the
processes be done everybody's
responsible for implementing those
principles some way in the company
everybody everybody has an assigned that
that they get to choose on their own
and so that again makes it so that it's
a lived thing it's not just an exercise
that was done
and so a lot of times
um CEOs will either assign those tasks
and that doesn't work
needs to be volunteered it needs to be
out of their own initiative and then uh
or there's just no tasks it's like okay
we did the exercise now we'll live by
those principles and I've had people in
companies like create emojis for the
principles and then that becomes
shorthand inside of the inside of the
company and I've seen it so that like it
just becomes
you know the principles who become
shorthand or it's like decision making
it's like oh yeah what's this principle
say we should do and then everybody's
like okay that's what we're doing and so
when it works it works really well it
saves so much time even though there's a
you know it's kind of like
being a great parent or training a dog
it takes a lot of upfront time but it
saves a tremendous amount of time on the
back end
yeah
yeah what else what are some
I'm curious to just kind of get some
disaster stories from you and uh
in principal setting
uh you know Discovery rollout
yeah so
the only thing that doesn't work for
people is that they don't wrestle with
them they don't constantly iterate
they're not running the experiments and
that's when the principles fail for
people and they don't fail like they
don't blow up people's lives what I
notice is what they do is they just
don't live by the principles and then
they're back into the old patterns and
so they don't make decisions quickly
gracefully or
I would say with a better result uh in
companies the there is one other thing
that has happened in some of the
companies where they have like we have
our mission statement which is
meaningless that nobody looks at and we
have our core values which is
meaningless and nobody looks at her it's
meaningful and nobody looks at
and then they're like okay now we're
going to do principles
and there's like a now we have a
mission and we have the we have the what
do I listen to It's just confusing the
the signal to noise ratio is just way
too high
and so I think it's really important if
a company's going to do it to really
prioritize
how you're doing this and what's really
needed and what's not needed and what's
being listened to and
and like anything you have to edit
really well you have to throw stuff out
to make it work
yeah yeah yeah that's it awesome yeah
awesome well thank you very much
appreciate your time and uh I'm glad
that we got this uh last one for the
decision course created and I look
forward to our next one yeah me too
looking forward to it awesome all right
thank you bye
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]